Hey guys, how's it going? My name is
Andrew and welcome back to my studio.
So today now that we've learned how to
mouthpiece Buzz, we're going to learn
how to match pitch on the mouthpiece.
So go ahead, take your mouthpiece rubber,
hold it with your non writing
hand and we're going to play.
What is AG? On the trumpet.
So if you don't know how
to play a G on the trumpet,
it's open and you can play it.
I guess.
If you don't have the range to
play that on the trumpet yet,
you can always take a piano like I have
back here and find where F is.
And play that and that is
your G. So the process for doing
this, you're going to hum the G.
And then you're going to
play it on a mouthpiece.
And hold it out for a few seconds.
Rest for a few seconds in between.
Sing it again.
And a mouthpiece puzzled again.
Now, if you end up hitting a note too low,
let's say you sing this note.
Uh, but that doesn't sound like the G, right?
Well, you're too low so firm up a little bit,
and then push a little bit with
the air just a little bit to
help raise that pitch. Ohh uh.
Now, if you're too high. Ohhh.
What you want to do is you
want to relax in the middle,
so let your the center of your
lips relax just a little bit.
Maybe drop your jaw just slightly.
To make that pitch go down. Ohh
but the end result we want to
come in right on that sheet.
You can do this on any note you want to.
I would recommend don't go too
high right off the beginning
and don't go too low right away.
Both of those extremes are hard to do,
especially when we're first learning trumpet.
So find something in a comfortable register.
If you're reading music and
doing this somewhere towards the
bottom of the staff for now,
but we will talk about that in a later video,
so I hope this video helped you guys out.
If you did, feel free to visit the rest
of my videos and take lessons live,
and if you're interested in private
lessons with me, my name is Andrew and
you can find me on takelessons.com.
Thanks guys.
Have a good one.
Bye.